NAME
    pre-receive-reject-binaries - A configurable Git hook to intelligently
    reject binary pushes

SYNOPSIS
        pre-receive-reject-binaries --help
        pre-receive-reject-binaries --man

        # To actually make this hook do anything wrap it in a shellscript
        # that does this
        pre-receive-reject-binaries --dry-run=0

        # Do whatever we would have done but fail in cases where we'd
        # succeed, for testing purposes
        pre-receive-reject-binaries --dry-run=0 --always-fail

        # By default we only emit NOTICE level output on STDERR, that can
        # be made a lot more verbose with DEBUG or TRACE. We can also pipe
        # DEBUG or TRACE output to a log command, see
        # hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.log-command.
        pre-receive-reject-binaries --dry-run=0 --log-level=TRACE

DESCRIPTION
    This is a Git hook meant to be set up as a "pre-receive" hook (see
    githooks(5)) that'll reject the addition of binary data to a repository,
    either all binary additions if they on a per-commit basis go above a
    given size.

    The general strategy of this hook is that when we get a push for a given
    "master" branch we'll do a "log --stat" of "$branch..$to" and find all
    the commits that add binary data, and how much they add.

    Each commit in the push is then given a quota of how much binary data is
    allowed, if any commit goes above that quota the entire push is
    rejected. Depending on the configuration (see below) the user is allowed
    to force the push to go through by amending the commit message to
    include some string saying they forced it through.

    To entirely reject binary pushes you can set the size limit to 0 and
    don't define an override message to allow users to push those changes
    manually.

    You can also allow some amount of binary data in the repository
    per-commit, e.g. to allow committing small icons but not giant images.

    Of course someone could be clever and commit a bunch of huge
    Base64-encoded data that wouldn't be detected by Git as binary, or
    manually split up huge binary data into multiple commits, each of whom
    don't go above the configured limit.

    This hook is not meant to stop a dedicated attacker from enlarging your
    Git history, it's meant to stop someone who doesn't know better ("what
    do you mean people have to download my binary data on every checkout,
    forever?!") from accidentally messing up the history.

    We only care about updates to the "master" branch for two reasons, one
    is that if you're e.g. doing some temporary work and committing some
    binaries to a custom branch temporarily that's fine as long as that
    branch doesn't make it to "master", and eventually gets deleted from
    $whatever.git.

    The other is that if you we were to reject pushes to other branches,
    especially newly created ones we'd have to deal with the special case of
    deciding what to use as the merge-base for that branch. Do we use the
    "master" branch? do we validate the entire history? Easier to just not
    deal with it. Want the hook to do something smart about that? Patches
    welcome.

    Keep in mind though that this is deliberately written to be fast on
    humongous repositories, so anything that breaks that promise would have
    to at least be optional.

    We do handle the initial push to the "master" branch itself by just
    validating the entire history being pushed.

INSTALLATION
    Our only dependencies are a working perl interpreter. We only depend on
    modules that have shipped with perl itself forever, so this hook should
    just work out of the box on any *nix-like OS that has perl installed.

    To enable it for a given bare repository you want to push to just create
    a hook/pre-receive with something like:

        #!/bin/sh
        /path/to/where/you/cloned-pre-receive-reject-binaries/pre-receive-reject-binaries --dry-run=0

    See "CONFIGURATION" below for how to configure it. We shell out to "git
    config" so you can enable this configuration per-repository, or globally
    (via e.g. /etc/gitconfig) or any combination of the two.

CONFIGURATION
    Here's an example of what a typical configuration for this hook might
    look like:

        [hook "pre-receive-reject-binaries"]
            master-branch-name = master
            max-per-commit-size-increase = 1024
            commit-override-message = "YES I WANT TO FOREVER INCREASE THE SIZE OF core.git BY ADDING {BYTES} BYTES OF BINARY DATA TO IT!"
            support-contact = "git@lists.example.com or the 'support' Jabber channel"
            log-command = /gitroot/contrib/hooks/pre-receive-reject-binaries/log-command
            log-command-level = TRACE
            blocked-push-command = /gitroot/contrib/hooks/pre-receive-reject-binaries/blocked-push-command
            unblocked-push-command = /gitroot/contrib/hooks/pre-receive-reject-binaries/unblocked-push-command

    For example commands for the "*-command" switches see the examples/
    directory in the pre-receive-reject-binaries Git distribution for an
    example of what the author uses this hook for.

    Detailed documentation about each option below:

  hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.master-branch-name
    The "master" branch name you want to not allow binary pushes to. Usually
    "master", can also be "trunk" or whatever.

  hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.max-per-commit-size-increase
    If a given commit adds files whose cumulative file size is above this we
    reject it. In bytes.

  hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.commit-override-message
    If there actually is a good reason to go above the configured limits
    they can be overridden.

    To do this the commit message of any offending commit needs to be
    changed to include this string. Occurrences of "{BYTES}" in the will be
    replaced by however many bytes are being added. E.g. this can be set to:

        YES I WANT TO FOREVER INCREASE THE SIZE OF $whatever.git BY ADDING %BYTES% BYTES OF BINARY TO IT!

    If that string is present in the commit message we'll ignore that commit
    for the purposes of computing the size of the commit. To not allow any
    overrides just don't set this.

  hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.support-contact
    A string we'll use when we reject the push as the support contact, e.g.
    an E-Mail address or Jabber channel.

  hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.log-command
    An executable script that we'll pipe all our output into. Useful for
    e.g. spewing all output users see into a log.

  hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.log-command-level
    The log level we'll use for the output given to the
    "hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.log-command". Can be "NOTICE", "DEBUG"
    or "TRACE". The "NOTICE" messages are the messages we show to users,
    anything above that is verbose output mainly intended to debug this
    script.

  hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.blocked-push-command
    A command we'll run whenever this hook blocks a push, it'll get all the
    output we emit piped into it. Useful for e.g. sending a mail whenever we
    have a blocked push.

  hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.unblocked-push-command
    A command we'll run if we have a push that we would have rejected, but
    was unblocked through via the facility described in
    "hook.pre-receive-reject-binaries.commit-override-message". If that's
    not enabled we won't be calling this.

AUTHOR
    Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason <avar@cpan.org>

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
    This software is copyright (c) 2014 by Ævar Arnfjörð Bjarmason
    <avar@cpan.org>

    This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
    the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

